# Heart-Abnormality-Classification
Heart Abnormality Classification Using ECG and PCG Recordings
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the kind of diseases with the highest morbidity and mortality worldwide. It is estimated that 17.9 million people died of CVDs in 2017, accounting for 31% of global deaths. There exist many diagnosis tools in clinics, such as cardiac auscultation (could be recorded as phonocardiogram), electrocardiograph, ultrasonic cardiogram, CT, myocardial enzyme, and angiography. Cardiovascular activities are extremely complex. There are many subtypes of CVDs, such as arrhythmia, mitral valve prolapses, and coronary artery disease. At present, a single tool cannot effectively and comprehensively reveal the entire CVDs. Therefore, the diagnosis of CVDs based on multi-modal data has attracted widespread attention. Due to the low cost and convenience of measurement, Electrocardiographs (ECG) and phonocardiograms (PCG) are generally used to diagnose patients with suspected CVDs. ECG records the changes in the electrical activity of the heart during each cardiac cycle. PCG is a graph that converts the vibration of heart sounds into time-course vibration waves. In clinics, it is essential to consider both PCG and ECG for physicians to make diagnosis decisions. Due to the different generation mechanisms of these two signals, ECG and PCG can reveal the status of cardiovascular activity from multiple perspectives.  Existing research methodologies proposed various methods for heart disease diagnosis but some errors are found. To solve that problem this research methodology proposed a novel method-based heart disease detection system with a risk level of heart disease.
